---
author: mangoafterdawn
title: Chart2Lua
long_title: "Chart2Lua: Using NoteData to Schedule Mods"
layout: post
---
This guide is going to continue with the presumption that you already know what a basic `for loop` is.
If not, check out [the post on for loops](./for-loops.md) for more information.

## What is Notedata, and How Do I Get Some?
Notedata, or a Notedata table, is very simply a list, or table, of notes with all of their attributes listed.
To create this table is very easy and is already a feature in-game:
First, create a chart with arrows placed at the time you want something to happen (I recommend creating a seperated difficulty just for using notedata.) For now, the arrow's column doesn't matter, so I will be using an example with all of the arrows on the Left column (column 0).

Then, highlight the area which contains all of the arrows you just  placed in the editor. The arrows should be flashing white and have a red selection area behind them. Make sure this is the area you want, and then hit `Esc`. Select the option `Save Area To Lua`. It will bring a menu up which prompts you to name your notedata. For now, we ill leave it as the default, `notedata`. Hitting enter should make a saving sound effect and create a `.xml` file in your modfile's directory with whatever name you gave to it.

So what do you do with this new file then? All you have to do now is load the table somehow so you can use it! There's 2 easy ways that you can do this.

1: Load it using XML
- Scroll down into the XML layers of your `mods.xml`.
- To load `.xml` files is pretty simple, just make a line similar to this:

```xml
<Layer File = "notedata.xml"/>
```

2: Copy+Paste the table into your code.
- Just copy everything from the table starting from the first `notedata = {` to the last `}`, and simply copy paste it into your `mods.xml`. 
- Some programs like VS Code allow you to collapse these tables down so they dont take up too much space!

Now that you have the notedata loaded, we can put it in a `for loop`! But first, here's the important information inside of it that you can use.

Your notedata table should look like this:
```lua
notedata = {
  {0.000,3,1},
  {1.000,3,1},
  {2.000,3,1},
  {3.000,3,1},
  {4.000,3,1},
  {5.000,3,1}
}
```
It's a table of tables! Each table is laying out all of the attributes of the arrows you placed down:
`{beat,column,type,length}`
`beat` is the beat which the arrow was on, to 3 decimal places.
`column` is the column number, which is **0 indexed**, meaning the 1st column is 0, 2nd is 1, etc.
`type` is the type of note. If it is a mine, this is M. If it is a tap note, it is 1. If the note is a hold, type is 2, and if it's a roll, type is 3.
`length` usually does not appear unless there was a hold in the note data. If there was a hold, it is the length of that hold. Otherwise, it is `nil`.

So now that we know what information can be used in the `for loop`, how do you go about making one? Using a `for loop` with `ipairs`!

This is what that would look like:
```lua
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  --code will go in here
end
```

- `i` refers to the `index` of the table, which is basically each table's place in the list.
- `v` refers to each table. Calling `v` will be very useful to us soon!
- `ipairs(notedata)`. `ipairs` is a function built into Lua, and it should be called with one argument: the table you want to loop through.

If running this code gives you an error that complains about the name of your table being `a nil value`, then go back to make sure that you are correctly loading your table.

Now that you have the `for loop` working, you can call any of the Mirin Template's various functions and have them be scheduled at the beats specified in your notedata. Since each note is represented with the form `{beat,column,type,length}`, the term `v[1]` refers to the beat, and `v[2]` refers to the column.

Here's an example:

```lua
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  --ease, add, and set
  ease{v[1],1,outExpo,100,'invert'}
  add{v[1],1,outExpo,-100,'tiny'}
  set{v[1],100,'drunk'}
  --func
  --for func inside of for loops, you must make a local variable v ! (or whatever else you called it!)
  local v=v
  func{v[1],1,outExpo,0,scx,function(a)
    PP[1]:x(a)
  end}
end
```
`v[1]` will be the first entry of each of the tables in your notedata! In our example above, its value would be `1`, `2`, `3`, `4`, and `5` for each iteration of the loop.

Keep in mind that when using `set` & `ease`, that if the value is not somehow changing every time it is run, that it will continue to set it to the same value, and it will not be moving. I recommend using any of the various `transient eases` such as `pop`, `tap`, or`bell`, or using the `flip()` function on any of the regular eases!

## Advanced: Taking advantage of other info: columns & length
So if using `v[1]` gets the first entry of each table, `v[2]` will get the 2nd! If the exported notedata has arrows on different columns, that information can be used to call different code.

Here's an example of how to do this:

```lua
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  if v[2] == 0 then
    --an if statement which checks v[2] is all you need for this!
  elseif v[2] == 1 then
    -- if there are  more columns, add them with an elseif statement!
  elseif v[2] == 2 then
    --you can repeat this,
  elseif v[2] == 3 then
    --for all columns!
  end
  --code run before or after these if statements will run every time there is an entry.
end
```

Any code run inside of the if statements will only run on their respective column! Be careful if you are using maths which relies on using `i`, since **the `i` will increase on every entry**. A good substitute is creating an incrementer around it, like this:

```lua
inc1=0
inc2=0
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  if v[2] == 0 then
    inc1=inc1+1
  elseif v[2] == 1 then
    inc2=inc2+1
  end
  --inc1 and inc2 will both count seperately from each other!
  --they basically act as a counter for how many times the code has been run.
end
```

Earlier, it was mentioned that holds will provide you with a `length` entry in your table, which is normally `nil` for other note types. It is different in the way it is put in the notedata than the other entries. a notedata table which contains length may look similar to this:

```lua
notedata = {
  {0.000,3,1,length=1.000},
  {1.000,3,1},
  {2.000,3,1,length=2.000},
  {3.000,3,1},
  {4.000,3,1,length=3.000},
  {5.000,3,1}
}
```

Because it is formatted in this way, you should not use `v[4]`, but rather use `v.length`!

Here is a way to use this length, for example, as the length of an ease:

```lua
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  if v[4] ~= nil then
    --this if statement checks if there is a length variable
    -- if it does exist, it runs this code:
    add{v[1],v.length,pop,100,'drunk'}
  end
end
```

Alternatively,

```lua
for i,v in ipairs(notedata) do
  if v[4] ~= nil then --this if statement will check if v[4] exists
    --if it does exist, it will use whatever the length in the notedata says.
    local a=v.length 
  else
    -- if it does not exist, it will be set to whatever fallback value 'a' is set to! 
    local a=1 
  end
  -- this code above can be shortened to be 1 line but is expanded for explanation.
  add{v[1],a,pop,100,'drunk'}
```
