---
author: TaroNuke
title: For Loops
layout: post
---
At its core, a for loop is a "repeat" instruction. That means "do thing Y, X many times". There are a few special rules about how it counts, defined by you.
The general structure is
```lua
for i=Start,End,StepSize do
  --do some stuff with i,
  --which starts at Start,
  --and goes until End,
  --with StepSize being the increment per "step"
end
```
The "i" part is the most important here. Everything within the for block is happening repeatedly for each value of i.
Some quick examples
```lua
for i=0,10,2 do
  Trace('HELLO, THIS IS STEP '..i)
end
```

This is going to print 6 things to the console: (as the start and end values are inclusive)
```
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 0
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 2
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 4
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 6
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 8
HELLO, THIS IS STEP 10
```
The ability to do things multiple times has many applications in programming, but it's particularly useful in mods. If you're working in tables (as is the case with every modern template), you can add lots of things to a table at the same time.
Let's say for example, you want to move players back and forth every 4 beats, starting at beat 200.
```lua
for i=200,231,4 do
  ease {i,2,outCubic,100,'z'}
  ease {i+2,2,outCubic,0,'z'}
end
```
Starting at beat 200, this is gonna move the playfields 100 pixels towards the camera, then at beat 202 move back to the starting position. Because of the for loop, this code will be run again, but with i=204, making the playfields move forward again at 204 and back again at 208. This will carry on until i is greater than 231 (causing it to not run at b232 as the condition will have been satisfied by the time it reaches that point). That's a pretty basic overview of how a for loop works and what it can be used for. there are many other things, like for i,v in pairs/ipairs or while loops, but I'm not tryna overwhelm here.
