# Writing Plugins for Mirin Template
Writing a plugin for the Mirin template is a bit more complex than just using the template itself. It requires a bit more in-depth knowledge about the template than just setting and easing mods and functions.

## Setup
Let's write an example plugin:
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	-- code goes here
end) />"
```
I'd like a plugin that will let me apply mods to Player 1, and mirror them to Player 2 (i.e., 100 drunk on P1, -100 drunk on P2, etc.).

The first thing I would need to do is have a way for our plugin to do something. Essentially, we will need to create a function. It should take in a table so we can call it as we would `set` and `ease`, something we are familiar with. Let's name this function `mirror` for now. 
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		-- code here
	end
end) />"
```

## Reading and Writing to tables
Since we need to have two separate percentages to apply to two different players, it makes sense to have two separate tables. We could manually copy every relevant value in our table passed into the `mirror` function, but there's a handy function called `copy` we can use for this exact purpose.
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		local tcopy = copy(t)
	end
end) />"
```

Now we want to signal that the first table goes to Player 1, and the second to Player 2. we can use the `plr` key and assign it to either `1` or `2` for both tables.
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		local tcopy = copy(t)
		t.plr = 1
		tcopy.plr = 2
	end
end) />"
```

## Ease table for-loop
Now we can start reversing variables. If you look at your arguments when you call `ease`, you may notice that the percent-mod chain of table values starts at index 4, after the `beat`, `len`, and `easefunc`. We can use this to make a convenient for-loop. We'll loop through `tcopy` and make all values negative.
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		local tcopy = copy(t)
		t.plr = 1
		tcopy.plr = 2
		for i = 4, #tcopy, 2 do
			tcopy[i] = -tcopy[i]
		end
	end
end) />"
```

Now we can call these tables to `ease` and return our plugin.
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		local tcopy = copy(t)
		t.plr = 1
		tcopy.plr = 2
		for i = 4, #tcopy, 2 do
			tcopy[i] = -tcopy[i]
		end
		ease(t)
		ease(tcopy)
		return mirror
	end
end) />"
```

## Chain calls
The reason we return `mirror` is so we can write multiple `mirror` mods in a row without typing `mirror` every time, like so:
```xml
mirror
	{0, 2, outExpo, 250, 'movex'}
	{2, 4, bounce, 100, 'drunk'}
```

In fact, because we can do this chain call with `ease` and `set` in our `mods.xml`, we can actually optimize our code a bit. Instead of calling two ease functions, we can call one ease function and call the *return*.
```xml
<Mirror Version = "1.0" Author = "Sudospective" LoadCommand = "%xero(function(self)
	function mirror(t)
		local tcopy = copy(t)
		t.plr = 1
		tcopy.plr = 2
		for i = 4, #tcopy, 2 do
			tcopy[i] = -tcopy[i]
		end
		ease(t)(tcopy)
		return mirror
	end
end)
```

## Submitting a Plugin
When your plugin is ready, you are open to submit a plugin to be uploaded to the plugins repository. Be sure to thoroughly test your plugin and write up some documentation on how to use your plugin.

### Writing Documentation
Writing documentation is important for potential users of your plugin. If someone doesn't know how to use your plugin, they'll have to dig through your code to figure out functionality. Here's an example of documentation for our plugin. Since this plugin has one function, the documentation will be just as simple.

> # Mirror
> #### Created by Sudospective
> The mirror plugin allows you to use ease and add methods that takes P1's mods and inverts them to P2's.
> 
> ## Usage
> ```lua
> Ease:
> mirror {beat, len, ease, percent, mod, mode = ease or nil}
> ```
> 
> Any mod, alias, and node is valid.
> 
> ## To-Do
> - Support different modes (`add`, `set`, custom plugin modes, etc.)
> - Support for more than two players
> - Support for specific degree of mirror offset
> - Support for error handling
> #

### Submitting 
If you're not well-versed in the concept of repository forks and git pull requests, you can reach Xero on Discord and send your XML and MD files via direct message. Otherwise, if you're comfortable with using GitHub, you can fork the `notitg-mirin-plugins` repository, add in your template and documentation, add your template name to the `PLUGINSLIST.txt` (Remember to list it alphabetically!), and submit a pull request to the repo.

That covers most of the basics on writing a plugin for the Mirin template. If you have any questions, feel free to reach out to me on the Mirin Template Discord. Xero and Chegg are also available to help as well.
